[Music]
Our next topic is operator overloading.
So this is important in the context
of defining your own value classes.
An example is you want to implement a vector class
or a matrix class or a complex number class.
And then you want to have the classical operators
like "+" "-" "*" overloaded for objects
of this own class type.
And in order to do that
you first have to know,
what is an overloaded operator.
In principle in C++ operators are functions.
So they can be overloaded like usual functions.
That means you just can redefine them
dependent on the concrete types of the objects
you pass as arguments.
If you overload these operators,
then of course they must have an operand
of this class type and that means:
this is enforcing the requirement,
that the overloaded operator does not redefine
the meaning of the operators,
when you apply them to objects of built-in types.
Of course you should stick to the rule
that you don't override these meanings
for built-in types.
Then you cannot change the precedence and associativity,
when you overload operators.
So they are fixed by the language
Here in the last line, you see a link
to the cpp reference website.
There you can basically see the precedence
for all of the predefined operators in C++.
In addition to that the short-circuit evaluation
is not preserved.
Short-circuit evaluation, just to remind you is,
when you have an if statement, for example
and there you have the condition.
And then you have two parts, so,
first part would be "a == 1"
and second part would be "&& b > 2".
Then basically if the first sub expression
is evaluated to for example false,
then the second one is not evaluated anymore,
because in order to result in true, of course
both have to be true.
So this is the short-circuit evaluation.
Then the other thing is that overloaded functions,
that are members have one parameter less,
than the typical operator.
So for example "+", of course
has two operands "a + b",
but if the operator "+" is defined
inside the class as a member function
then it has only one argument,
because the second argument comes
from the "this", so the object itself.
So then of course there are some design rules.
First of all you should not overload operators
with built-in meanings.
An example is the comma operator,
the address-of operator, logical and, or.
Those things, of course, the user expects
certain things to happen, if he uses them
and it is very confusing, if you overload them.
If you have to do it, they should really work
as you would intuitively expect.
The other thing of course is when you have classes
that you want to use together with the standard library.
So like, you want to have containers like vector,
that uses your class as an element type,
then you must follow some rules.
So for example you should define the less than operator
or the equivalent operator in order to be able to,
for example, sort your elements.
In addition to that it is then good to also define
the other operators, that are related to these.
So if you have "<",
you should also overload ">" and so on.
And the general rule is,
when you are not sure that it is obvious,
what you're overloaded operated does,
then don't overload
and just define a function,
that gives your operation a name
and that you can direct the call.
Then there are basically different classes of operators.
So there are operators that you must define as a member
and operators that you can define
as a member function
and operators that you cannot.
The first ones here in the list,
so assignment these brackets and arrow operator,
they must be members. The same way,
so like assignment, the compound assignment operators,
they also should be members of the class.
In addition to that things like
increment, decrement, dereference,
they also should be member functions.
And the symmetric operators like "+",
they should be non-member function.
So now we come to some concrete examples.
And we start with input and output operators.
Here it is important to be consistent
with the standard i/o library.
And basically offer the same functionality
that the classical "cout" and "cin" objects do
for built-in types, for example.
And for that you can overload
these output operators in the same way.
The i/o operators must be non-member functions.
The reason for that is,
if they would be members,
then of course the left hand operand
would have to be an object of the class type
and then you cannot realize the typical behavior,
beause they should return a reference
to the stream object and also the first argument
has to be a stream object
And not "this".
This is the in order to
chain these output or input streams.
And here in red you find basically two examples,
of how you can overload these operators.
It is a good idea to define them
as a friend function because then,
you can also directly access
the private part of your class.
So here is the "Sales_item" class
as an example for an own class type.
Important is also that your input operators
deal with errors.
Of course you can for example try to read something
from a file and then you get end of file.
Or you have for example inputs that have
the wrong type.
Also that is handled by the standard i/o library,
as you know from our previous example.
Because, of course, the object that you read
should be left in a usable and consistent state.
That means once you read into an object,
then it should be possible also to read,
maybe another item into the stream.
So what you can do is you can also set
the condition states of the istream parameter,
if it is necessary.
So could be you set the fail bit,
if something happens or an error occurs
The next type of operators are
the arithmetic and relational operators
If you implement them,
you should also implement the compound assignment operators.
So not only "+",
but also "+=" and you should have in mind,
that especially the "==" operator
and the "<" operator are used
in the standard library by many of the generic algorithms.
So you should always provide them,
if you want your class type to be used
as an container element type.
Again two examples,
for the symmetric plus operator,
that takes a constant reference
for the left hand side
and constant reference for the right hand side
and it returns an object.
Of course the assignment operators,
they also can be overloaded.
The assignment and the subscript, I mentioned it already,
they must be class members
and assignment should return a reference to "this".
in order to support the expected behavior
for non constant and constant objects.
You should provide two versions
of the subscript operator.
So that means, of course if you define
a constant object and you use
the subscript operator to access it,
then you do not want to overwrite the value.
So this of course should be a const member function,
but if you define a non const object
of your class type
and use the subscript operator,
then it should be possible, also to set the value in there.
So it is a non constant member function.
And the last type of operators I want to discuss here,
are the increment and decrement operators.
Here you should also try to be consistent
with the built-in operators.
So, that means the prefix operator
should return a reference
to the incremented or decremented value
and the postfix should return basically
the old value.